- [Instructor] As we have learned,
transformers modify a message
so that it can meet the contractual
or the type expectations of a consumer.
Let us now build a transforming end point together.
We'll initialize our project files for this lesson
using git, check out, 03_03b.
So our dashboard application depends on a backend rest API
for client status data points.
Our goal in this lesson is to leverage Spring integration,
to convert raw API JSON structured data,
like you typically receive from a rest API response,
into our native domain business tier.
Let's depart from our typical order of things
and start in our service layer this time,
instead of in our configuration.
In line 53, that is where we're simulating a rest API call.
Notice there, that we are formatting a domain object,
so that we can send it into the message flow in line 59.
This complexity is what we want to get rid of.
What we've got for this lesson
is a simulated rest API call
that in our case gives us a string,
a string that's structured as raw JSON.
Let's pipe this to the system out,
so we can first get a feel for what we're looking at
in terms of this API return data.
With a system out print line in place,
I'm going to start the application.
And now in the bottom of your screen,
you will see the API JSON data
that we're simulating in the application.
Notice how it's giving us different data points
each time it comes in?
This is all kind of mocked out for us.
So this is the JSON data that we're working with.
Now, let's go to our XML configuration file
and I'll show you how this works.
The first thing we're going to do
is we're going to create a direct channel.
And this channel is where
we will send our raw API JSON data.
Let's call it ID equals raw API JSON channel.
Now, if we were to start this application right now,
we would throw an error,
because we declared a channel that has no subscribers,
but we're going to take care of that by
configuring a response to this channel
in the form of a JSON objects transformer.
The input channel for our transformation will be
the channel we just created.
Copy and paste to ensure no errors.
We need to give it an outcome put channel,
which will be our status monitor channel,
that our application is depending on so heavily.
And the object that we're going to transform
our JSON string into,
will be our domain object that we've been using all along,
which is found in packaged util app support status.
So what Spring integration is going to do for us here
is when input comes into the raw API JSON channel,
it's going to automatically transform it for us,
put it out in the form of an app support status object,
and pipe that to our status monitor channel.
Now, what remains for us to do
is go into this status monitor service
and do the simplification.
We need to get a handle on the new channel we just created,
so let's do that by getting it from the context manager,
and the name of our channel again is raw API JSON channel.
Now that we've got a handle on that channel,
we're prepared to do a send to it,
so instead of sending to the status monitor channel,
we're going to send to,
what did we call this?
We're going to send to the API input channel.
This should start feeling familiar to you by now.
We're going to send to that channel a message.
We're going to use message builder to build it with payload.
And our payload now will be our,
simply our raw JSON string.
And we created the message,
build the message.
That's it.
Now we're no longer sending to the status monitor channel.
We're letting Spring do that for us.
We're no longer needing to create
this domain object ourselves.
Instead, the JSON that you see in the console below
is what's going directly to the channel.
Now let's start our server and see what we get.
What's really interesting and kind of a running theme here
is what we don't have to change.
By leaving everything intact
and providing a new entry point into the flow,
we don't have to touch our filters and our handlers,
which are already type checking for that domain object.
Our view processing doesn't have to change.
And any of our message flow consumers downstream
are completely unchanged.
So when we have a running application,
we'll go into the user interface
and prove out that it works.
And let's look at the user interface and confirm.
There in the lower left,
especially under the power usage section,
you will see data updating,
proving that our message flow is working as we expect.